Story Recapped here.
Today I'm going to explain a drama, horror,
mystery, and thriller film called "The Orphanage"
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In 1975 Spain, a girl named Laura resides
at an orphanage and soon gets adopted.
Thirty years later, she lives with her husband
Carlos, and their son, Simón, who is seven
years old.
She decides to reopen the orphanage and turn
it into a facility for children with special
needs.
One day as Simón plays around their home,
he talks to his parents about his two invisible
friends, Watson and Pepe, but Laura and Carlos
are passive about it.
Later, Laura accompanies Simón to the nearby
beach where a big cave is located.
Claiming that the cave is a chamber for keeping
special treasures, Laura lets her son leave
one of his belongings inside while she waits
by the entrance.
It takes the boy some time to return, so Laura
calls him and enters the cave after not receiving
a response.
She sees Simón talking alone, but he claims
that he was conversing with a new friend.
When she checks, she sees nothing but tiny
footprints that lead to a dead end.
During a rainy day at their home, Benigna
Escobedo arrives and identifies herself as
a social worker.
Laura welcomes her inside, and they both talk
about how the orphanage will operate.
Benigna reveals that she stopped by the house
as she is Simón's adoption consultant, revealing
that the couple adopted him.
The elderly lady questions Laura about the
boy's health because he has a preexisting
illness, but Laura gets mad about her intrusion
and sends her away.
While examining Simón's files, she finds
out that her adoptive son is HIV positive,
raising concerns about the little boy.
At nightfall, Laura is awakened by noises
outside, where she spots Benigna in a shed
snooping around as if she is looking for something
important.
Before she can confront her, the elderly lady
rushes out of the property.
Laura wakes Carlos up to look for the lady
but soon discovers that she is gone.
The following day, Laura opens the front door
and sees a pile of seashells just outside
her door, but she does not pay much mind to
it, thinking that Simón may be behind it.
In their living room, Simón tells his mother
that he has six new friends in total and claims
that he will just be like them.
He also adds that he won't grow old and that
he will stay with them.
Shortly after, Laura sees a sketch of the
six friends that Simón claims to have and
confronts him about the drawing.
According to him, his invisible friends steal
treasures, and the owner has to find them
by following clues, and if successful, they
grant a wish in return.
He tells his mother that he has agreed to
play with his friends, prompting a scavenger
hunt game.
It involves finding clues around their home
to retrieve the coins that his invisible friends
hid.
The two of them spend a significant amount
of time rummaging around their home—from
Simón's room to the garden, to the chapel,
and finally, to the kitchen where his adoption
file is.
With a key, Simón unlocks a drawer where
he finds his coins hidden between the pages
of his file before telling Laura that he knows
he is adopted.
Enraged by this, Laura asks him who told him,
to which he replies that Tomás, one of his
invisible friends, did.
With agitation, Simón tells Laura that he
knows he will die soon, which puts his mother
in a state of confusion.
After the incident, Laura and Carlos decide
to have a serious conversation with Simón
to explain their family situation, inviting
him to ask questions.
First, he asks what will happen to him if
he stops taking the medication that his parents
provide, raising concerns about his health.
However, his parents assure him that he is
perfectly fine and will always be there for
him if he gets sick.
During the preparation for the reopening of
the orphanage, Simón and Laura get into an
argument.
Simón wants to visit his friend, but his
mother is just too busy to entertain his requests.
Laura explains that she does not have time
for it, causing her son to have a tantrum.
Because of his insistent manner of seeing
Tomás' house, Laura slaps Simón, which she
immediately regrets.
The party's theme is an animal masquerade,
which requires the guests to wear masks that
resemble any kind of animal.
Among the guests is the kid who looks exactly
like the one in Simón's drawing, whom he
calls Tomás.
Laura enters the house to make amends with
Simón and let him join the party, but Tomás
follows her along the hallways.
In a sinister way, he approaches Laura and
shoves her into the bathroom, locking her
inside, so she calls out for help.
As she gets out with the help of Carlos and
other guests, she looks for Simón in a small
room, but construction scaffoldings are scattered.
She rearranges it and realizes that Simón
is missing after looking for him in and out
of the house.
She runs to the beach, attempting to enter
the cave, but Carlos saves her from the crashing
waves.
Instead, they put everything in the hands
of the authorities while Laura seeks medical
attention at a nearby hospital.
Carlos informs Laura that Simón was not found
inside the cave, but she is insistent on seeing
someone.
He is backed up by Pilar, the head police
psychologist, who explains that Laura must
have imagined it.
Pilar is part of the investigation team on
Simón's whereabouts; according to her, he
might have been kidnapped by a relative, also
given that they had an intruder in the past
days.
When Laura tells Pilar about Benigna, the
psychologist reveals that no social worker
is registered under that name, hinting that
she may be their son's captor.
The devastated Laura is currently bound to
a wheelchair after an injury in the sea, so
Carlos entrusts his medallion to her as an
expression of comfort.
That night, Laura dreams of swimming in the
ocean and wakes up to mysterious noises from
the hallway.
The noises lead her to Simón's room, where
she finds a doll under his sheets.
After six months, Simón's parents feel more
and more forsaken as there is no progress
on tracking him down.
Laura and Carlos have extracted all their
means to reunite with their son but to no
avail.
As a means of coping, they join a support
group, where Laura shares about Simón's imaginary
friends.
The members explain that it is normal to see
visions of loved ones after their death, but
Laura is confident that her son is still alive.
On a snowy day, the couple spots Benigna,
who crosses the street while pushing a baby
carriage downtown.
After Laura recognizes her, she immediately
gets out of the car in hopes of finding Simón.
The elderly lady gets fatally hit by a speeding
ambulance out of nowhere, as Laura and other
people watch in horror.
Laura rushes under the ambulance where the
carriage is, only to find a doll that looks
exactly like Tomás.
Before they could extract any information,
Benigna sadly dies on the cold street.
Laura approaches to look at her familiar face,
but when she touches her necklace, the old
woman comes back to life for a second.
Her deformed face and bloody appearance terrify
not only Laura but the rest of the witnesses.
After the tragic incident, Pilar gathers pictures
and film reels from Benigna's house to investigate.
It is then revealed that Benigna used to work
at the orphanage where Laura used to live.
Unknown to many, she had a son named Tomás,
who was kept hidden because of his deformities.
While showing news articles about Tomás'
disappearance, Pilar informs Laura that the
boy vanished shortly after her adoption.
Furthermore, they find out that the other
orphans played a trick on him by stealing
his mask while at the cave to see if he would
come out.
The embarrassed boy never emerged from his
hiding place, and was drowned by the rising
tides.
After being convinced that she saw Tomás,
Laura plays Benigna's film reels that show
what Tomás' real face looked like.
It shows that he is deformed and different
from the rest.
That night, Laura feels her husband cuddle
up in bed with her, and she recalls precious
moments they had with Simón.
Amid the fond memories, Laura hears the doorknob
move, revealing that Carlos was not the one
in bed with her.
At this moment, it is indisputable that something
or someone is haunting her once peaceful life.
Desperate for answers, Laura seeks assistance
from a parapsychology expert named Professor
Leo Balaban.
She expresses the strange things that have
happened since Simón vanished, even providing
a piece of Benigna's clothing.
After examining the item, Professor Balaban
puts Laura in contact with Aurora, a medium
who is a good friend of his.
During their first meeting, Aurora tags along
her sound technician named Enrique as part
of the procedure.
While Aurora summons the spirit using a doll,
the rest watch from a separate room.
As the seance progresses, Aurora walks around
the orphanage while Enrique traces her steps,
hoping that it might give a clue to help find
Simón.
In a secluded room, Aurora hears the cries
of the orphans desperately crying for help
and sees them in such a dire state.
The others could also hear the children's
spirits with the sound machine while Professor
Balaban instructs Aurora what to say, do,
or ask.
She claims to see five children in the room,
but after she asks if Simón is with them,
the power lines are cut off, ending the seance
abruptly.
Aurora describes her visions back in the living
room in great detail but apologizes for not
gaining a clue on Simón's whereabouts.
Meanwhile, Carlos and Pilar remain unconvinced
about paranormal matters, remaining skeptical
on the subject.
Before leaving, Aurora tells Laura that she
is nearing death, and so is her ability to
see the dead.
Both of them also reveal wounds on their arms
caused by the spirits circling the orphanage.
Laura sinks deeper into depression and explores
the contents of the orphanage on her own.
A window suddenly falls into a window seat
in a room, where she uncovers dolls just beneath
it.
As a clue, she sees a picture of her and Simón,
which prompts her into conducting a scavenger
hunt—Simón's favorite game.
Laura starts by browsing through her son's
childhood pictures, where she sees a dried
rose in one of the albums.
To continue, she comes to the garden, where
she sees a piece of cloth that resembles one
of their blankets.
Laura rummages through their closet to find
the blanket and uncovers a candy packet, giving
away that the next clue is inside Simón's
memory box.
Inside, Laura sees a doorknob, and as a means
to get the next clue, she searches for an
empty knob inside the house but finds nothing.
After failed attempts, she opts to go to the
coal shed, where she finds Benigna's locket
near a coal chamber.
Thinking that it might be a clue, she breaks
the door open and retrieves sacks from inside
the small and cramped chamber.
To her surprise, there happen to be five human
carcasses that terrify her beyond belief.
Devastated, she finds out that the bodies
belonged to her childhood friends: Martin,
Rita, Alicia, Guillermo, and Victor.
Benigna poisoned their meals to avenge Tomás'
death and came to the shed after three decades
to recover the bodies.
Laura explains her theory to Carlos, who cannot
grasp the situation, making him leave in the
middle of the overwhelming situation.
Despite his pleas that they stay together,
Laura decides to stay at the orphanage alone.
She makes the place look as it did three decades
ago by rearranging the furniture and other
functions of the house.
To make it more convincing, she even dresses
as an employee before taking an excessive
amount of sedatives.
The high dosage will put her into a state
of near-death, making her more receptive to
the spirits' messages.
With the doorknob in her hand, she begins
to contact the spirits, but they completely
disregard her.
A bright idea comes to mind when she remembers
one of her favorite games from before, where
a player knocks three times as the other players
come from behind.
Laura knocks enough times for the children
to come at a close distance before she could
chase them along the dark halls.
The children lead her to a small room where
construction materials are at, hinting Simón's
whereabouts.
The distressed Laura tears down the wallpaper
and inserts the knob into a door, which leads
to an underground room.
She descends to the stairs where an empty
room which used to be Tomás' abode.
From a corner, Laura sees Simón silently
lying down and embraces her son at that instant.
Simón seems perfectly calm and well despite
being away for such a long time, relieving
all of his mother's worries.
While Laura clings to her son and gives him
words of comfort, she realizes that Simón's
weight becomes lighter.
Not long after, she realizes that she is only
holding a piece of cloth, and Simón's body
lies on the cold floor in another corner.
She finds her son's corpse and shrieks out
of grief, realizing what really caused his
death.
While looking for Simón on the night of his
disappearance, Laura arranged pieces of construction
scaffolding, which blocked the entrance to
the secret room.
The mysterious and crashing noises that night
were actually caused by Simón trying to get
out.
In his desperate attempt, he fell down the
stairs and fatally broke his neck.
Dramatically, Laura brings her son to the
bedroom before taking an excessive amount
of sleeping medication.
She holds Simón close just as she does with
Carlos' medallion, slowly letting out her
final breath.
After some time, the mother and son wake up
in a room full of orphans, even reuniting
with her childhood friends.
They all happily gather together and immediately
see Laura as their motherly figure.
At that moment, she tells them a story just
before bedtime, and the children are comforted
by her loving presence.
Time has passed, and Carlos visits a gravestone
just outside the orphanage before he enters
the house.
In their old bedroom, he finds the medallion
he entrusted to Laura and can't help but recall
their fond memories.
The door opens just before him, and in a comforted
manner, he smiles.